# Heart Disease Classification Project

## Overview

Welcome to the "Heart Disease Classification" project! This data science project is focused on developing a machine-learning model to classify heart disease based on various features. The primary goal is to predict the likelihood of a person having heart disease, providing valuable insights for early diagnosis and intervention.

**Explore the project directly on Kaggle:** [Heart Disease Classification on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/sarthaklamba/heart-disease-classification)

## Project Description

Heart disease is a critical health issue globally, and early detection is crucial for effective treatment. This project utilizes machine-learning techniques to analyze and predict the presence of heart disease based on a set of features. By exploring and understanding patterns in the data, we aim to contribute to the development of a reliable predictive model.

## Dataset

The dataset used in this project contains information about several health-related features, such as age, sex, chest pain type, resting blood pressure, cholesterol levels, and more. These features serve as input variables for training and evaluating the machine-learning models.

The original data came from the Cleveland data from the UCI machine learning Repository.

It is also available on Kaggle: [Heart Disease Data on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/redwankarimsony/heart-disease-data)

## Models Used

Three different models have been employed in this project to achieve accurate heart disease classification:

1. **Logistic Regression:**
   - Logistic Regression is a classic classification algorithm that models the probability of a binary outcome. It's widely used for predicting the probability of an event.

2. **K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN):**
   - KNN is a non-parametric and lazy learning algorithm that classifies a data point based on the majority class of its k-nearest neighbours. It's effective for classification tasks with a clear separation between classes.

3. **Random Forest Classification:**
   - Random Forest is an ensemble learning algorithm that builds a multitude of decision trees and merges them together to get a more accurate and stable prediction. It's known for its robustness and high accuracy.

## Usage

To run the project and explore the heart disease classification model, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sarthaklambaa/heart-disease-classification/
    ```
2. Install the required dependencies using `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
3. Run the main script or Jupyter Notebook to train and evaluate the models.
4. Explore the results and predictions generated by each model.

Feel free to customize and extend the project as needed for your specific use case or dataset.
   ```
